This paper describes a case study of the model-based 
condenser water temperature setpoint control for a chiller 
plant with multiple chillers and cooling towers. The plant 
was modeled using the Modelica Buildings library. Both the 
supervisor control and local feedback loop controls were modeled 
to more realistically represent the real system. The total energy 
consumptions and computing times under different optimization 
strategies were compared. The result shows that the daily optimization 
can provide similar energy saving with significantly less computing 
time compared to the hourly optimization.
Chillers are key components of heating, ventilation, and air-conditioning (HVAC) 
systems and consume large amounts of energy in commercial buildings. This study 
conducted field tests on the operation performance of chillers in large-scale commercial 
buildings and analyzed the typical problems influencing their energy efficiency. 
Subsequently, based on the field test results, a systematic optimization method 
for chillers was proposed based on external factors, internal factors, and synergy 
control between them. For external factors, the cooling load prediction model 
comprising a linear model based on the time series was constructed using historical 
operation data; the proposed model could be applied to guide the control of 
chillers to match the building cooling demand accurately with high energy 
efficiency. For internal factors, the energy performance model of the chiller 
was constructed using historical operation data, and the operation characteristics 
of constant-speed and variable-speed centrifugal chillers were compared and summarized.
Then, using the cooling load prediction model and energy performance model of the chillers,
a new control strategy was proposed to improve the energy performance under different 
operating conditions throughout the year. Compared with previous operation modes in 2018 and 2019, 
the energy saving rates reached 19.21% and 5.22%, respectively, achieving considerable energy-saving 
and CO2 emission reduction effects.